readme.md, before:

#ALIAneS Emulation Project#
* Michael Kafarowski
* Project start date : March 10th 2015

###Current Progress and To do's###

- Filling in operations!
- Add a verbose debug option that enables extra information about the operation of each opcode.

###August Shell Update###
After a couple months of my computer being out of commission, plus a new co-op job, I haven't had much time to work on the project. But I've made some progress: the August shell update is my first major release in a couple months and it includes a new "front end" that can be used to run the emulator as normal, or in a test mode. In this test mode you can write to blank memory and execute at different locations.

###Testing the Emulator###
First, download the latest version of the code and compile it. If you can use make and gcc, type `make` then `make run` to start. Otherwise compile as you would normally. Run the bin in a terminal. Typing `start` will search for a "nestest.nes" file in the /res directory, you must supply this yourself. `Test` will initialize the CPU and allow you to `read` and `write` to memory, and either `decode` and execute an opcode at a location, or `execute` an opcode, which will use the subsequent memory. `end` finishes this mode, or just type `quit` to end the program. Not much error checking for inputs has been implemented, so be careful.

###Project Goals###

I have a tier'd goal structure for this project:

- Bronze: Achieve CPU emulation
- Silver: Achieve PPU emulation. Games should run at >5 frames per second
- Gold: Add very basic mapper support. Games should approach comfortable speeds if not already.
- Platinum: Add more mapper support and APU emulation. Games should run at or higher than full speed.


###Terms###

* CPU - Central Processing Unit : The chip that takes care of reading and executing instructions that appear in memory.
* PPU - Pixel Processing Unit : The chip that accepts commands from the CPU and using special tables in its own memory, takes care of drawing sprites and backgrounds to the screen.
* APU - Audio Processing Unit : Takes care of the game sound generation.
* More defined terms coming soon.

###About###

This is a project I am undertaking to learn more about a lot of things: advanced C++ coding, emulation, assembly language... etc. I am having a lot of fun with the development of this software as well, and regardless of how the final product turns out, this has already proven to be an amazing learning experience.

Commit message:

CPU had OR instead of AND in AND opcode... oops!

readme.md, after:

#ALIAneS Emulation Project#
* Michael Kafarowski
* Project start date : March 10th 2015

###Current Progress and To do's###

- All (supported) opcodes written!
- Testing needs to be done on all of them
- Cycle counts are being implemented
- Memory mirroring still needs to be implemented

Bronze goal in sight!

###August Shell Update###
After a couple months of my computer being out of commission, plus a new co-op job, I haven't had much time to work on the project. But I've made some progress: the August shell update is my first major release in a couple months and it includes a new "front end" that can be used to run the emulator as normal, or in a test mode. In this test mode you can write to memory and execute at different locations. It's quite finiky though...

###Testing the Emulator###
First, download the latest version of the code and compile it. If you can use make and gcc, type `make` then `make run` to start. Otherwise compile as you would normally. Run the bin in a terminal. Typing `start` will search for a "nestest.nes" file in the /res directory, you must supply this yourself. `Test` will initialize the CPU and allow you to `read` and `write` to memory, and either `decode` and execute an opcode at a location, or `execute` an opcode, which will use the subsequent memory. `end` finishes this mode, or just type `quit` to end the program. Not much error checking for inputs has been implemented, so be careful.

###What happens after the CPU is completed?###
I'll be taking a few weeks off from programming to write detailed blog entries. From there I need to do a lot of research (again!). As far as displaying output goes, I'm thinking about using SDL for cross-platform, but that could change.

###Project Goals###

I have a tier'd goal structure for this project:

- Bronze: Achieve CPU emulation
- Silver: Achieve PPU emulation. Games should run at >5 frames per second
- Gold: Add very basic mapper support. Games should approach comfortable speeds if not already.
- Platinum: Add more mapper support and APU emulation. Games should run at or higher than full speed.


###Terms###

* CPU - Central Processing Unit : The chip that takes care of reading and executing instructions that appear in memory.
* PPU - Pixel Processing Unit : The chip that accepts commands from the CPU and using special tables in its own memory, takes care of drawing sprites and backgrounds to the screen.
* APU - Audio Processing Unit : Takes care of the game sound generation.
* More defined terms coming soon.

###About###

This is a project I am undertaking to learn more about a lot of things: advanced C++ coding, emulation, microprocessors, assembly language... etc. I am having a lot of fun with the development of this software as well, and regardless of how the final product turns out, this has already proven to be an amazing learning experience.
